In the introduction module, you used Canny edge detection
to find pixels that were likely to be part of a line in an image.
Canny is great at finding all possible lines in an image, but for
lane detection, this gave us a lot of edges on scenery, and cars, and
other objects that we ended up discarding.
Realistically, with lane finding,
we know ahead of time that the lines we are looking for are close to vertical.
So, how can we take advantage of that fact?
Well, we can use gradients in a smarter way to detect steep
edges that are more likely to be lanes in the first place.
With Canny, we were actually taking a derivative with respect to X and
Y in the process of finding edges.
But let's stop and have a look at what those individual derivatives look like
for an image of the road.